meanwhile the United Nations has
released a report condemning the
worsening human rights situation in the
occupied West Bank and occupied East
Jerusalem it says Palestinians are
trapped in a cycle of fear facing the
Relentless force of the Israeli Army as
well as violence from settlers according
to the report between October the 7th
and December 27 nearly 300 Palestinians
were killed primarily due to Israeli
military operations and raids on refugee
camp camps 492 Palestinians have been
killed by Israeli forces this year
that's the highest since the UN started
recording such deaths 18 years ago more
than
4,780 Palestinians have been detained
the UN says they're subjected to torture
and violence in Israeli jails there's
been a further increase in settler
violence since October the 7th with
1,28 people forcibly displaced during
366 seven settler attacks eight
Palestinians were killed during these
attacks the UN is calling on Israel to
abide by international law stop all
violence against Palestinians and
thoroughly investigate these
incidents use of military tactics and
weapons in law enforcement contexts and
the use of unnecessary or
disproportionate Force by the Israeli
security forces are extremely troubling
dehumanization of Palestinians that
characterizes many of the Settler's
actions is very disturbing and must
cease immediately I call on Israel to
take immediate clear and effective steps
to put an end to settler violence
against the Palestinian population to
investigate all incidents of of Violence
by settlers and Israeli Security
Forces well Ajit tungi is the head of
the United Nations human rights office
in the occupied Palestinian territory he
joins us now live from New York good to
have you with us so first of all take us
through some of your findings there and
particularly about what you've
documented in terms of unlawful killings
by Israeli
forces thank you thanks for having me um
the the main purpose of this report was
to draw the attention to what was
happening in West Bank um particularly
from the 7th of October until yesterday
what we noticed is a market increase of
violation
of human rights of Palestinians by the
Israeli Security Forces um um and then
also attacks by Israeli settlers um you
are accurate in describing that Force
has been used in an excessive manner um
and in many cases uh unnecessary and
disproportionate Force which has um
ended up with hundreds of Palestinians
being killed to be accurate about 500
this year highest number um since we
recorded uh since we started recording
um in the
opt your report also references torture
of prisoners take us through how
widespread that's become since October
the
7th um there are about
4,7 um odd people who have been detained
2,000 plus since the 7th of October um
access to them has not been easy however
some of them have been released we have
had an opportunity to speak to them and
also gather information from a number of
other sources what from what we have
been hearing is the ill treatment and
very horrible situation in detention
centers and also in some cases um you
know uh acts that would amount to
torture um what about settlers what role
is settle violence playing in the
displacement of Palestinian communities
according to your report
for settler violence has been a major
cause of problem uh for years now
settlements have been expanding um there
are over 7 thou 700,000 settlers in the
West Bank including East
Jerusalem um as settlers get closer and
closer to the Palestinian community at
this point in time they're all over in
West Bank tensions increase Israel
settlers attack Hing communities of
Palestinians what we've seen this year
particularly after the uh 7th of October
is an embold of settlers for different
reasons and they have started attacking
not in one or two um One One cases but
in groups we have seen earlier this year
in haara we've seen similar such
cordinated settler attacks on the
Palestinian community and herders and
many others um in this cohesive
environment have decided to move away
from uh places where they have been
living for
years and what caught my attention is is
when reading your report and you talk
about this Rising wave of settler
violence but the report talks about new
restrictions on movement being placed on
the
Palestinians
right that is correct um the rise in in
settler violence is also related to lack
of accountability I think that's
extremely important to underscore um
where there is impunity VI will continue
to happen and that's what we've noticed
and we've been saying this for years now
that accountability is important the
next point that you made about movement
restrictions is also extremely worrying
and this is particularly for the
Palestinians like we have mentioned in
the report these restrictions are
discriminatory it prevents Palestinians
from moving from town to town we have
heard this from number of sources we've
also seen our teams have gone out it
massively impacts the community but also
businesses and their day-to-day life
schools U and other activities and this
has been a major concern for us and
we've also underscore this is not what
we have seen in the past there's a lot
more of restrictions whether through
Earth moles checkpoints um large
obstacles
Etc are you concerned that statements by
some Israeli officials may actually be
be playing into this Rising wave of
settler violence you mentioned a moment
ago the problems in haa and of course
Israeli officials like bezel smotrich
have been quoted as calling for haa to
be wiped off the
map indeed you know the High
Commissioner for human rights W Kad du
has issued many statements in the past
alerting to such statement made made by
people in power in government in Israel
these statements embolden settlers they
give them a sense of security it gives
them a certain kind of permission to do
what they want to do it is impossible
not to relate these things and say there
is a market increase because there is
some kind of an embolden and this is
exactly what I was trying to allude
earlier that such statements from people
in power actually further encourage us
settlers to to attack on Palestine
Palestinians thank you very much for
sharing your your report there and more
details of it a
sunay thank you